## Release Notes for v1.3.0

### Breaking change
- We now strip (at most) one trailing newline from the result (i.e.
  standard output) of non-SQL external scripts, saving many uses of
  `.stripped`.
- In a loop, when the row has fewer columns than the variables we bind,
  the extra variables are made undefined (rather than keeping their
  previous value).

### Bug fixes
- Handle non-ASCII characters and CR correctly.
- Print line numbers error messages starting from 1 (not 0).
- Wait for SIARD process to stop to avoid exceptions for small databases.
- We now prevent nested iteration over the same result set (which has
  never worked as expected).

### Improved warnings and errors
- Better warnings when generating SIARD files.
- Signal failure when metadata is specified for database objects not
  included in the generated SIARD file.
- Show warning when metadata is missing for schemas, tables, views and
  table columns in the generated SIARD file
- Prefix every log message with timestamp [hh:MM].
- Used system specific line separator in log messages.
- Show current variable bindings when assertions fail.
- Improved failure messages.

### Other improvements and new features
- `.as_integer` now accepts initial and trailing whitespace characters,
  saving many uses of `.stripped`.
- The values of 1x1 row sets can now be directly accessed using
  `.stripped` and `.as_integer`.
- Strings can now be compared to row sets and iterated over like row sets,
  in which case it is assumed to consist of tab separated string values.
  (However, `.size` can still only be used for actual row sets.)
- Strings and row sets can be compared with `==` and `!=`. (NB. If `r==a`
  and `r==b` for some row set `r` and strings `a` and `b`, we may still
  have `a!=b` due to different line endings.)
- The development option `-use-existing-SIARD` has been added for when
  adjusting the metadata fails after the SIARD file has been generated
  (which can be very time consuming).

### Examples
- The existing examples have been adjusted and updated.
- A new example has been added: `hbr/befolkning.dbspec`.
  (Alas, it uses a data dump which is not generally available.)
